INTRODUCTION TO VISUAL RULES
In this lesson, you'll learn the basic structure and syntax of CSS so that you can start styling web page elements. 

CSS STRUCTURE
To style an HTML element using CSS, you need to write a CSS declaration inside the body of a CSS selector. 
[h1 {
  color: blue;
}]
The example above selects the <h1> element. Inside of the selector's body, we typed collor: blue. This line is referred tok as a CSS declaration. CSS declarations consist of a property and a value.
Property- the propery you'd like to style of that element (i.e., size, color, etc).
Value- the value of the propery (i.e., 18px for size, blue for color, etc)
In the example above, the propery is color and the value is blue. The property and value are separated by a colon (:). A semicolon (;) should always be used at the end of a declaration. 
Finally, the entire snippet of code in the example above is known as a CSS rule or rule set. A CSS rule consists of the selector (here, h1) and all declarations inside of the selector.

FONT FAMILY
If you've ever used a formatted word processor, chances are that you probably also used a feature that allowed you change the font you were typing in. Fon refers to the technical term typeface, or font family. To change the typeface of text on your web page, you can use the font-family property.
[h1 {
  font-family: Garamond;
}]
In the example above, the font family for all main heading elements has been set to Garamond. When setting typefaces on a web page, keep the following points in mind:
1. The font specified in a stylesheet must be installed on a user’s computer in order for that font to display when a user visits the web page.
2. The default typeface for all HTML elements is Times New Roman. You may be familiar with this typeface if you have ever used a formatted word processor. If no font-family attribute is defined, the page will appear in Times New Roman.
3. The default typeface for all HTML elements is Times New Roman. You may be familiar with this typeface if you have ever used a formatted word processor. If no font-family attribute is defined, the page will appear in Times New Roman.
4. When the name of a typeface consists of more than one word, it’s a best practice to enclose the typeface’s name in quotes, like so:
[h1 {
  font-family: "Courier New";
}]

FONT SIZE
Changing the typeface isn't the only way to customize text. Often times, different sections of a web page are highlighted by modifying the font size. To change the size of text on your web page, you can use the font-size property.
[p {
  font-size: 18px;
}]
In the example above, the font-size of all paragrpahs was set to 18px. px means pixels and is a way to measure font size.

FONT WEIGHT
In CSS< the font-weight property controls how bold or thin text appears.
[p {
  font-weight: bold;
}]
In the example
