INTRODUCTION TO VISUAL RULES
In this lesson, you'll learn the basic structure and syntax of CSS so that you can start styling web page elements. 

CSS STRUCTURE
To style an HTML element using CSS, you need to write a CSS declaration inside the body of a CSS selector. 
[h1 {
  color: blue;
}]
The example above selects the <h1> element. Inside of the selector's body, we typed collor: blue. This line is referred tok as a CSS declaration. CSS declarations consist of a property and a value.
Property- the propery you'd like to style of that element (i.e., size, color, etc).
Value- the value of the propery (i.e., 18px for size, blue for color, etc)
In the example above, the propery is color and the value is blue. The property and value are separated by a colon (:). A semicolon (;) should always be used at the end of a declaration. 
Finally, the entire snippet of code in the example above is known as a CSS rule or rule set. A CSS rule consists of the selector (here, h1) and all declarations inside of the selector.

FONT FAMILY
If you've ever used a formatted word processor, chances are that you probably also used a feature that allowed you change the font you were typing in. Fon refers to the technical term typeface, or font family. To change the typeface of text on your web page, you can use the font-family property.
[h1 {
  font-family: Garamond;
}]
In the example above, the font family for all main heading elements has been set to Garamond. When setting typefaces on a web page, keep the following points in mind:
1. The font specified in a stylesheet must be installed on a user’s computer in order for that font to display when a user visits the web page.
2. The default typeface for all HTML elements is Times New Roman. You may be familiar with this typeface if you have ever used a formatted word processor. If no font-family attribute is defined, the page will appear in Times New Roman.
3. The default typeface for all HTML elements is Times New Roman. You may be familiar with this typeface if you have ever used a formatted word processor. If no font-family attribute is defined, the page will appear in Times New Roman.
4. When the name of a typeface consists of more than one word, it’s a best practice to enclose the typeface’s name in quotes, like so:
[h1 {
  font-family: "Courier New";
}]

FONT SIZE
Changing the typeface isn't the only way to customize text. Often times, different sections of a web page are highlighted by modifying the font size. To change the size of text on your web page, you can use the font-size property.
[p {
  font-size: 18px;
}]
In the example above, the font-size of all paragrpahs was set to 18px. px means pixels and is a way to measure font size.

FONT WEIGHT
In CSS< the font-weight property controls how bold or thin text appears.
[p {
  font-weight: bold;
}]
In the example above, all paragraphs on the web page would appear bolded. The font-weight property has a another value: normal. Why does it exist?
If we wanted all text on a web page to appear bolded, we could select all text elements and change their font weight to bold. If a certain section of text was required to appear normal, however, we could set the font weight of that particular element to normal, essentially shutting off bold for that element.

TEXT ALIGN
No matter how much styling is applied to text (typeface, size, weight, etc), text always appears on the left side of the browser. To align text we can use the text-align property. The text-align property will align text to the element that holds is, otherwise knows as its parent.
[h1 {
  text-align: right;
}]
The text-algin propery can be set to one of the following three values:
1. left- aligns text to the left hand side of its parent element, which in this case is the browser.
2. center- centers text inside of its parent element.
3. right- aligns text to the right hand sied of its parent element

COLOR
Before discussing the specifics of color, it's important to make two distinctions about color. Color can affect the following design aspects:
-> Foreground color
-> Background color
Foreground color is the color that an element appears in. For example, when a heading is styled to appear green, the foreground color of the heading has been styled. Conversely, when a heading is styled so that its background appears yellow, the background color of the heading has been styled. In CSS< these two design aspects can be styled with the following two properties:
-> color: this property styles an element's foreground color
-> background-color: this property styles an element's backgroud color
[h1 {
  color: red;
  background-color: blue;
}]
In the example above, the text of the heading will appear in red, and the background of the heading will appear blue.

OPACITY
Opacity is the measure of how transparent an element is. It's measured from 0 to 1, with 1 representing 100%, or fully visible and opaque, and 0 representing 0%, or fully invisible. Opacity can be used to make elements fade into others for a nice overlay effect. To adjust the opacity of an element, the syntax looks like this:
[.overlay {
  opacity: 0.5;
}]
In the example above, the .overlay element would be 50% visible, letting whatever is positioned behind it show through.

BACKGROUND IMAGE
CSS has the ability to change the backgroung of an element. One option is to make the background of an element an image. This is doen through the CSS property background-image. Its syntax looks like this:
[.main-banner {
  background-image: url("https://www.example.com/image.jpg");
}]
1. The background-image property will set the element’s background to display an image.
2. The value provided to background-image is a url. The url should be a url to an image. The url can be a file within your project, or it can be a link to an external site. To link to an image inside an existing project, you must provide a relative file path. If there was an image folder in the project, with an image named mountains.jpg, the relative file path would look like:
[.main-banner {
  background-image: url("images/mountains.jpg");
}]

REVIEW VISUAL RULES
Incredible work! You used CSS to alter text and images throughout a website. Throughout this lesson, you learned concepts includign;
--> CSS declarations are structured into property and value pairs.
--> The font-family property defines the typeface of an element
--> font-size controls the size of text displayed
--> font-weight defines how thin or thick text is displayed
--> the text-align property places text in the left, right, or center of its parent container.
--> Text can have two different color attributes: color and background-color. color defines the color of the text, while background-color defines the color behing the text.
--> CSS can make an element transparent with the opacity property
--> CSS can also set the background of an element o an image with the background image property.
Feel free to experiment with the code and see what other changes you can make! If you want to see how to incorporate CSS visual rules in a project, watch the video below and follow along with one of our experts:

QUIZZ
1. Assuming the declarations inside are valid, what else is needed to complete a CSS rule set?
ANS: A valid selector and a set of curly braces({}) surrounding the declarations

2. How would you make an <h1> element invisible on the page?
ANS:
[h1{
opacity:0;
}]
Correct! opacity values range from 0 (transparent) to 1 (opaque).

3. Which of the following is a correct CSS declaration?
ANS: color: blue;
Correct! Properties and values are separated by a colon (:), and declarations should end with a semicolon (;)

4. What does the font-family property control?
ANS: The typeface used by the element
Correct! font-family is used to set the typeface.

5. The font-weight property will adjust which of the following?
ANS: How thin or thick text appears
Correct! font-weight sets the thickness of letters in text.

6. Which of the following will set an element’s background to an image?
ANS: backgroung-image: url("image.jpg");
Correct! The background-image takes a url() with an image path.

7. How will the following CSS rule affect the text in <h1> elements?
ANS: Change the text color to blue
Correct! A css declaration with the property color and the value blue will turn the text blue!