FRONT-END VS BACK-END
Why is this Path called "Create a Front-End App with React?" What does that really mean? The front-end of a web application is the code that a web browser executes. This includes the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript files that are rendered by the browser to createa the user interface. The back-end of a web application is the code that the server executes. The server stoers the data that all of the different clients need, and it listens for requests and sends the requested data back to the client.
In the diagram to the right, the server is represented by the cylinder with three notches. A server is just a specialized computer that is optimized to receive and process requests. One server can handle reponses from many different clients, which can be browsers, mobile devices, or any other internet-capable device. The Skill Path will cover the ins-and-outs of making the front-end of web application. The front-end is a great place to start learning JavaScript if you want to grow your career because manyh jobs are front-end focused. Whether you aim to be a software engineer, a product manager, or a technical marketer, a solid understanding of front-end web application will serve you well.

FROM WEBSITES TO WEB APPLICATIONS
As teh internet got more and more advanced, we start to see websites with rich user experiences and interactivity that mimicked the behavior of desktop software applications. Eventually, we started referring to these websties as web applications. This started round 2005, with applications like Gmail. Though the differences can be a bit blurry in practice, here are some key characteristics that often separate a web application from a website:
--> Interactive user interfaces
--> Ability to persist data from one visit to the next
--> Front-end interfaces that can update without needing to make a request tok the server on every click.
On the right is Jammmming, a music player application that you will built later in this course. 
The preview on the right isn’t interactive, but when you build this project yourself, your application will be fully clickable and interactive!

WHAT IS REACT?
As internet speeds increased and web browser became more powerful, web applications grew more complicated and ambitious! It became necessary to develop more advanced tools for building and maintaining web applications.
#Spaghetti Code
Writing JavaScript code that interacted directly with HTML became messy as applications were built and maintained over time. Complex JavaScript web applicatoins were often called "spaghetti code" because they were structured in tangled and confusing ways that would quickly get out of hand.
#Performance Problems
Athe the same time, performance became a problem for complex web applications. using JavaScript to change HTML wast fast enough when only a few changes were needed, but not when one click from a user could trigger many complex changes throughout the applications.
#React to the rescue!
In 2013, React came to the rescue! React is a JavaScript library for building user interfaces. React is an open-source tool that was initially developed by Facebook, but it is widely used in many web applications.
React solves the problem of messy spaghetti code by breaking the code into components. There is typically one component for each discrete feature of the site, and each of the components follows the same general structure. This measn that the same code patterns will be enforced throughout the applications, which will make the site more maintainable and readable as it is updated. React also does a lot of clever calculations under-the-hood to make sure that updates in the browser are calculated as efficiently as possible, thus improving performance. You’ll learn much more about how React works later.
#React and the Job Market
React is one of the frameworks currently in highest demand in the web development industry. React developer salaries often range from $90k-110k per year.
React is still new enough that it’s hard for employers to find candidates who understand this powerful framework.
Learning React will give you the skills you need to set yourself apart in the job market!

